So what is PGI public key infrastructure.
As mentioned we discussed it a bit in the encryption sections where we looked at symmetric and asymmetric
keys and PCI is based on asymmetric Keys where we have public and private keys so remember that we have
the private keys that we use to encrypt a given data with and then we are sharing our public key which
is related to our private key so that the users can decrypt our content.
And this is really what this PGI approach is based on the public private key relation and how we can
trust that a sinner is who they say they are.
So let's take a look at it.
So in the PGI we have something called S.A. the certificate authority and as you see on this picture
right here this authority is on the tab here at this building.
And then we have a company one and a company too.
So company one needs to talk to company two and since they are going to do this in an encrypted manner
and company two wants to ensure that what they are receiving is from company one they are using this
certificate authority as their main trust source.
This means that both Company 1 and Company 2 are trusting this third party.
So this could be the fourth party company or government organization or someone that both of them are
able to trust.
Meaning that company two don't have to trust company one alone because what is company one wanted to
cheat company two.
So they are trusting this one.
This means that the certificate of are the key manager in this PCI set up right here.
So DEA is going to manage and create the public and private keys for the companies involved right here.
So what this is doing is that when company one wants a certificate they are asking the CIA for private
key.
So the CIA will generate a private and public key for company one that they will hand out the private
key to Company 1 and then they will sign this private key with their own public key.
So see the CIA is saying the private key with the public key so now company one has a private key which
has been signed by the CIA.
So when the company one wants to send the data to company 2 they are going to use the private key they
received to encrypted data so they used a private key then the encrypted data and sent it over to company
two.
Now that company too has received this data they of course want to decrypt it because they can look
at what it is based on.
So since that the data that they encrypted is based on a private key that has been signed by the CIA
the company you can ask the CIA for the public key of their private key because privately they used
to sign the certificate.
So only their public key is capable of decrypting the signed a certificate part of this data because
company one got the private key with the same value.
So company two is getting the company one probably key and they can use to see a public key to decrypt
the same value.
And if they are able to decrypt the same value then they know that company one is who they say they
are because they trust that the CIA has only handed out this same certificate to the company won and
not some random person who said yeah I'm an employee at company one.
Just give me company once private certificate and have it signed please.
No they have investigated and say OK you are actually company one.
So we are going to sign this private key certificate to you.
So when people are asking for the public key needed to decrypt this we can trust they can trust that
we have dude done our background search so that we know that you are company one company.
You can only decrypt the same value if it is coming from a valid signature that has been encrypted by
the CIA.
So this is how this go around.
This is simply and made easy a model of this PCI.
It can be much more advanced.
You can have registration authorities as well and you can have multiple other parties and you can have
a route of authority meaning that the CIA will have a route on its own set that you will trust on several
intermediate certificates as well so you can have a real along change of certificate.
But the important part is that the rude or the.
Yeah the route authority is one that all the parties within this network is trusting because if they
don't then this entire PGI setup has no value because if company one made some shady agreements with
the CIA then company two could not be sure that whatever they received from company 1 were legit because
these two had an agreement in between.
So it needs to be a third party that is independent from the people using this signed value.
And it also B has to be a third party that can be trusted to operate under the rules of this PCI setup.
So I hope that this make made sense for the PTI if it didn't then please re watch this video and try
to see if it makes sense or else go back and take the encryption lecture and the data hashing lecture
and then end up with this PGI lecture.